everyone Lazlo Montgomery here for the
200th time with another China history
podcast episode 200 episodes almost 8
years seriously thanks to everyone out
there who collectively catapulted me to
the ranks of the top 10 China history
long-form podcasters on the world wide
web I never thought I would live to see
that my eternal gratitude to everyone
who made that all possible I didn't
think I can stretch this topic out this
long but I've come to the realization
that not only is this history of China
Vietnam relations series go into five
parts it might even go to six and my
long-winded or what believe me when I
say I'm leaving out more than I'm
leaving in everyone who is not familiar
with Chinese or Vietnamese the languages
I know all these names and whatnot are
oppressive I feel for you when I listen
to other history podcasts Russia India
Indonesia Islam Bulgaria and no matter
those names and places the presenter is
rattling off Amy - babe goes in one ear
and out the other
I don't sweat it and no need for you to
either if I mention somebody you should
know I'll tell you
okay last episode I left y'all hanging
precipitously and the eve of the first
of three Mongol invasions of Vietnam
let's go through them quickly to set the
stage let us review in 1257 as the
Mongols were gearing up to expand their
mighty empire a little to the south the
ruling emperor down in Tang lomé
modern-day Hanoi is drunk I dome he was
the child Emperor we mentioned last time
who was plucked on the throne in 1225 by
drum - though after he led the coup that
overthrew the Lee dynasty now Trump item
is a big boy no longer a child 39 years
old and he ends up being the first Viet
ruler to face down the Mongol army to
zoom out and get a big-picture glance at
the Mongols 1251 as a CHP episode 169
Munga Khan became the supreme ruler
of the Mongol Empire he was elected from
amongst the grandsons of Chinggis Khaan
the great khans younger brother ku
Bligh's his territory portfolio included
China this is southern Song Dynasty time
after a relatively peaceful takeover of
the north of China Kublai Khan began a
long protracted battle to take the south
of China
12:53 he put the Kingdom of Dali in his
gun sights and by 1256 they were
finished off and there was no further
trouble down in Yunnan province as far
as the mongols were concerned and
bordering yunnan to the south of course
vietnam at this time there's no single
great big unified China the southern
Song dynasties lands only consisted of
that part of the country from the
Yangtze River south the military
commander picked to snatch Vietnam was
the son of subbu tai mongol history
enthusiasts all know su butai he was
jingis and Oh g'day khan's main general
which makes him about the winning as
general in world history this son of
subbu ty with 13 letters in his name
that I won't burden you with he took the
fight to dive yet in 1258 now before the
Mongols would go into a country and
annihilate it they would always
generously offer up the opportunity for
the attackee to submit first and save
everyone the trouble and wholesale
slaughter that's how this all started
dive yet the Mongols weren't all that
familiar with that part of the world
their primary interest in 1258 was to
march down into died viet lands staged
their army down there and invade song
china from the south one mongol army was
already squeezing the song from the
north well you're not gonna believe this
but drum tide on the dive yet Emperor he
refused the request you know once he let
them in they'd stay for good better and
not let them in at all and to exacerbate
matters the envoys sent by the Mongols
to work out an arrangement while they
were thrown in prison so this breach and
diplomatic protocol dish
affecting the Khans diplomats so
blatantly well that became the cases
Bell I for the first Mongol invasion of
Vietnam at 12:58 all the way some of the
patriotic stories were written about
past battles I mean this was one of
those Lord of the Rings kinds of battles
between local Viet forces fighting from
atop war elephants against Mongol
soldiers fighting totally out of their
element
it all sounds epic but hey the bigger
the animal the bigger the target the
Mongols would shoot the war elephants
and the legs or feet soar attack their
trunks with their swords and a general
panic of elephantine proportions ensued
and I could only imagine these spectacle
well it's almost eight centuries ago so
hard to say exactly what happened
nationalist history will explain it one
way and others will say it happened in a
different way it was to say in this
first encounter with the Mongols the
Viet forces got clobbered the Mongols
came in like they did everywhere else
and they were just too overwhelming in
their force in the end gentlemen the
whole royal court had to abandon the
Capitol Tung loam and make a hasty
retreat
and as they fled the Red River Delta
they burned everything along the way
leaving nothing but destruction for the
Mongols to march past and they raised
Tung low to the ground if there was one
thing the Viet people could always count
on to wear down their northern opponents
it was their climate the steppes of
Mongolia couldn't have been more
different than the jungles rivers swamps
mountains and humid tropical climate of
Vietnam the Mongol troops suffered from
the insects diseases and most of all
from the deadly effect of guerrilla
tactics of the local vietze who well as
we've seen over the past few episodes of
the series already had wrapped up more
than a thousand years of
on-again-off-again practice trying to
push the Chinese and other hostile
forces from the west and south out of
their lands
after fighting a losing battle with
local Viet resistance and after death
from disease decimated the Mongol army
they opted to declare victory and
withdraw from dive yet and head back to
China they smashed the place up but
didn't achieve their primary objective
of using die Viet as a staging area to
invade China from the south they still
had years to go yet before they
conquered song China the following year
in 1259 möngke khan the ruler of the
mongol empire died and all the killing
and conquering got put on hold
china vietnam everyone they all got to
enjoy one last respite before these
grandsons of Chinggis Khaan worked out
this succession crisis and came at them
again the succession did get worked out
and Kublai Khan hole it in Vietnamese
and whooping yeah and Mandarin he ended
up on top and ruled both the Mongol
Empire as well as the yin dynasty in
China it took him ten years but the Song
Dynasty fell to the Khans armies a
century and a half before it had been
the Jurchens who had punched out the
northern song and now the Mongols were
finishing off the southern song the
yeren dynasty was established in 1271
but the last remnants of Song Dynasty
resistance weren't eradicated until 1279
a good many southern Song official
scholars and military leaders skedaddled
down a dive yet to get out of harm's way
and later on some of these song military
officers will aid the forces of diet
when Kublai Khan comes knocking on their
door again
the Great Khan made his first attempt to
invade Japan in 1274 we know from
previous CHP episodes that didn't go too
well before he went back for a second
and third try at taking the Land of the
Rising Sun he made some moves into
Southeast Asia we're only gonna talk
about Vietnam but at the same time as
the second invasion of Vietnam the UN
also had boots on the ground in
present-day northern Myanmar and in
Indonesia on the island of Java
ever since the Mongols left
dive yet in 1259 Emperor trying tight
thong wisely opted to choose the path of
least resistance and to send tribute to
the Great Khan and play along with the
whole vassal state game the drun dynasty
sent tribute as expected and did enough
diplomatically to keep the pot from
boiling over but despite repeated
demands made by the court of Kublai Khan
Ford I've yet to act like a proper
tributary state junk item repeatedly
refused to go all the way as far as his
personal bowing and scraping in front of
the Khan and no recognition was offered
to the dive yet John Emperor the Mongol
Court refused to treat him like a king
or anything as far as they were
concerned dive yet was a vassal state of
the Mongol Yuan Dynasty masquerading
around as an independent entity an
effect that the gen Emperor would only
go half way
as far as submitting to the Khan well
that caused quite a bit of outrage and
guess who else was thumbing their nose
at the great un Empire Champa to
remember they were located just south of
dive yet they were playing the same game
as the vietze up in the Red River plain
submitting but not in a wholly
enthusiastic or sincere manner that the
Mongols demanded there was no wiggle
room as far as how far down you had to
bow to the Khan so plans were made to
show Champa the correct way the Khan
sent a group of envoys to the dive yet
capital at tanglong and demanded safe
passage for his armies through dive yet
lands so that he could march down and
destroy Champa the Jun dynasty by this
time was on its third emperor John Young
poem grandson of the Jun dynasty founder
John Python John Young poem was on duty
in the capital when the Mongol army came
calling this second time around usually
all you had to do to earn the wrath of
Kahn was to refuse to pay proper tribute
when the khan's envoys arrived in the
capital to hammer out a deal with the
john royal court they were arrested and
thrown in the slammer and the great car
and obviously it's not like that kind of
disrespect meted out and thereby called
his generals together to come up with a
plan on how to deal with these
recalcitrant Vietnamese who refuse to
bend the knee in the direction of the
Great Khan and exhibit the kind of
trembling respect that everyone else
west of China was showing for these
diplomatic insults plans for the second
invasion of dive yet were put in place
and towards the end of 1280 for the
Mongol army began marching south by 1280
for the Song Dynasty had already been
completely done away with there were no
more major distractions this time to
divert the Mongols attention the battle
plans called for knocking off Champa
first in the south and central part of
present-day Vietnam and then looping
back to the north to deal with the gen
ruler in his dynasty and dive yet
fortunately the drum royal court down in
the diet capital had plenty of advance
warning that the invasion was coming
they had ample time to plan for a
defense December 12 84 it all started by
land and by sea the Mongol forces
invaded like last time the Viet armies
had to beat a hasty retreat in the face
of such overwhelming force some drying
Royals immediately defected knowing the
resistance was futile the Mongols came
with over half a million troops this
time no screwing around it's like what
the USA had in Vietnam in 1969 over the
next several months though after the
capital pang loam had been sacked for a
second time the shock and awe of the
initial invasion turned into another
hard slog of a battle with heroic
performances turned in by viet generals
leading around a couple hundred thousand
troops by the following year in april
1285 again with the dependable
assistance of the vietnam climate and
guerrilla fighters operating out of the
hills the tide had turned in favor of
the dive yet even the Champa armies were
deadly in their resistance against the
mongols like last time this operation
went well at first for the Mongol forces
but then
not so well no matter by land or by sea
the generals of the UN Dynasty could not
meet with the same success and dive yet
that they had enjoyed everywhere else in
the world once again after inflicting a
lot of pain and civil destruction the
Mongol army sailed back north to China
knowing they had been defeated I didn't
mention him in the last episode but I
will now the man of the hour to lead the
fight against the Mongol invasions was a
prince from the ruling house drum hung
Dao this is another name in in Vietnam
history that gets top Top Billing he
helped lead the fight against the
Mongols all three times and in the 2nd
and 3rd invasions at least played the
key role in the defense and ultimate
victory over the Mongols copiers later
after regrouping in March 12 87 Kublai
Khan anxious to avenge the last military
debacle called for a third invasion in
the army this time was commanded by the
great khans own son Prince toe Gong a
Mongol dream team of generals and
military might was assembled to take
down dive yet once and for all the Navy
that Kublai Khan was intending to use to
defeat Japan was diverted southward
instead I hate to bore you with the same
old plotline but the Mongols rolled in
to dive yet from the north and from the
south and pretty much trashed the place
once again in that little way they were
famous for tang LOM the capital today's
Hanoi again was gonna have to start all
over to rebuild from the ground up the
royal court had fled with Tran hung Dao
leading the retreat and he rallied his
generals and what followed was one of
those come back at the century
situations there's this heroic speech
that he gives to his generals and
officers on the eve of the Mongol
invasion it's right up there with Li
Tong gets poem about non-core Shan huh
Nam Cookson ha this speech supposedly
uttered by the great Vietnamese hero
John whom thou well it's not the same as
the Gettysburg Address but his
it's importance in the national
conscience not to mention with the
propaganda department it's quite a
profound document from Vietnam history
with strong words that say how dear
these barbarians invade our land let me
interject something here no one knows
who said this first but aside from what
Ben Franklin wrote about death and taxes
one thing that's certain is that history
is always written by the victors you
can't say that in today's ultra
documented world but as far as what
happened in these ancient and olden
times all this history is open to
interpretation and unfortunately
exploitation I just want everyone to
keep in mind that this series isn't
meant to be the end all authoritative
source for general Vietnamese history as
it pertained to China I'm telling a lot
of the story through the lives of these
national heroes like Gen Hong Tao for
example all these amazing examples of
his speech his leadership ability
glorious achievements and all that he
supposedly did to repel the Mongol
invasions and ultimately defeat them we
don't know that details any more than we
know whether Li Tong kit wrote that
patriotic poem Nam gooks on ha that's
called Viet Nam's first Declaration of
Independence in fact historians today
will say he never wrote that at all and
that a lot of these epic battles and
feats of heroism written about in these
surviving documents were well long on
nationalism and short on actual effects
anyway moving on but pretty much put an
end to this last and final invasion from
the grand dynasty was the epic third
Battle of the buck Dan River of 1288
this was the third time the fate of
Vietnam was decided at this river the
song buck bang the biting gem gem whom
tau he recalled when mo Qin had done 350
years ago in 938 when he had the Chinese
army of the southern Han bearing down on
him Tran hung Dao knew if mo Qin
strategy of sabotaging the river worked
before
good work again dren Hong Tao copied
know Quinn's technique in designing
these iron tipped pikes that were driven
deep into the river sand bed sharp
points facing out in an angle and after
once again luring the Mongols to a spot
far enough upriver and after the tide
had gone from high to low the Mongolian
Navy became aware that they had sailed
right into a trap and their formidable
Armada of 400 vessels well they couldn't
maneuver at low tide or defend
themselves and they were ambushed and
soundly defeated right there on the buck
dong River Kublai Khan's son toe gun
barely escaped with his life well hope
he would later feel the burn after
returning to China when his father
banished him for this disgraceful loss
in Vietnam history this is one of the
greatest milestone events of all time
and the drun dynasty though respected
for their other achievements as well is
mostly remembered for facing down the
Mongol you're in dynasty military three
times the inspiration this provided the
vietnamese people over the next seven
hundred years will be profound
the Dai Viet court did most of the
necessary things to give the un Emperor
the requisite face but when it came to
the Jun ruler personally coming to bow
before the UN Emperor they could never
get him to do that well finally in the
end after Kublai Khan passed from the
scene in 1294 the UN dynasty stopped
taking us so personally and ended up
accepting the status quo and no further
demands were made by the yeren emperors
for dai via to offer the full-blown
tribute although it's not called Vietnam
yet the nation starts to come into its
own here and out of China's formidable
shadow the Viet people had existed all
this time at least going back to jail
tois as part of this this sinus fear
I haven't emphasized this enough but a
lot of Chinese culture and influence had
flooded into Vietnam by this time
a lot of it may have been adapted to
suits
Viet sensibilities but make no mistake
about it
China's cultural presence was most
palpable from the Confucian astray mine
that was ingrained by this time too many
of the local customs not so much in
other parts of Southeast Asia but most
definitely in northern Vietnam and you
could see China's presence everywhere
even when they weren't there
I think I mentioned in part one the
summation of Vietnam was a man named
Laban hue li wen Hsiu in mandarin he was
the court historian tasked with writing
the definitive official history of the
country it was called the thigh assured
G this work was Vietnam's version of
China's record of the grand historian
and it chronicled the history of dive
yet going all the way back to the times
of the founding of nan Europe by child
hua regrettably this work did not
survive in the modern times but there
sure was a lot written about it and
quoted from it up to that point in the
drun dynasty everything written about
the history of vietnam had been written
by chinese sources in classical chinese
so this was the first time these
histories were rewritten with vietnamese
sensibilities and accounts written into
the record levan who also referred to
child hua as the one who inaugurated the
Imperial institution in our country and
compared to the sacred cows in China
such as Shan and Joanne Wong quote for
sealing off the frontier establishing
the country's army following the correct
way in relations with neighboring
countries and safeguarding the throne
and quote of the drum sisters the
hypogeum of the han dynasty
interestingly he noted their
achievements not so much for what these
two women did but as an example of what
a man should have done Lathan who had
written quote Joong Jack and Joanie were
women but they had only to make one
single appeal than the whole provinces
together with 65 counties all responded
setting up the country and conducting a
monarchy were so
easy for them but men were merely Co
tiling and resigning to submit to the
Chinese they would not even know that
they should be embarrassed by the two
drum ladies how shameful and quote
modern understanding of the Jung sisters
has peeled away the popular nationalist
version that says they were all about
expelling China from Vietnam the
consensus among modern Vietnam scholars
is that the sisters story was really one
involving regional conflicts more than
anything this first history of Vietnam
this Vietnamese version of the sure G
named all the heroes and villains from
Vietnam history it was written in the
style of the comprehensive mirror to aid
in government that's it you're Tom gin
and it gave the most detailed account of
the Mongol invasions to date that sicher
Tong Jin was itself I guess you could
call it an updated records of the grand
historian they've covered the history of
China from the warring States Period to
the northern song the the period in
which it was written it didn't end there
more official histories were written by
later Vietnamese history ographers levan
who began his history with child wah
others went even further back starting
with Qing annual and the bloc bit who we
discussed in episode 1 some of the
Vietnamese ancient myths and legends
like China had with the San Juan wudy
the three sovereigns and five amperes
were also inserted into these later
histories of Vietnam as we all know the
yeren dynasty still had some life left
in them after the death of Kublai Khan
in 1294 events went on for the UN but
the final few decades didn't go too well
and they were clearly on the way out by
the looks of things in 1351 the red
turbans started their uprising which
exploded into a full-blown rebellion the
hong jinki ii one of these rebels
fighting for the red turbans against the
mongols was julian cheung he fought the
UN forces for over a decade from 1356 to
1367 and led the final assault that
pushed the mongols
of China after capturing their capital
at dot do aka cun Ballack also known as
the present-day city of Beijing and that
was the next big milestone in China
Vietnam relations 1368 Zhu Yuanzhang
founded the Ming Dynasty town in Nanjing
and like a few previous Emperor's once
he gets his house in order he's gonna
start making the age-old demands China's
Emperor's had been making since the Han
Dynasty regarding proper tribute status
and the basic political nature of the
China Viette relationship before we get
to the upshot of Viet Nam's refusal to
give in to the demands made by the Ming
Dynasty Court let's quickly look at what
happened in Vietnam after the Mongols
went home for the third time let me just
say that as glorious as the jhen dynasty
was defeating or shall I say surviving
the Mongols three times they succumb to
the same fate as all the past great
dynasties of China and Vietnam what
brought them to a conclusion was a
combination of a bad Emperor here and
their political infighting and someone
with ambition in a position to seize
power it all began with a cousin to one
of the Jun princes named Hoke we li like
the Jun's
the hos had originally come from China
from the judging area and had migrated
south to the Red River Delta region the
whole family began their power grab
after the bane of all dynasties a weak
Emperor on the throne allowed an opening
for the hos to seize power from the
trends two years after the founding of
the Ming Hoek we li had staged a coup in
1370 with the help of buddhist factions
in the government and with Champa in the
south and by 1387 he was the most
powerful political figure at the
imperial court and made himself Imperial
regent in 1395 years later he was
comparing himself to the Duke of Joe and
China's revered Emperor Xuan in the end
during the easy-to-remember year of 1400
Hulk we Lee did away with the last
Emperor conveniently 3 years old and not
in much of a position to fight back
Oakley Lee set himself up as Emperor and
changed the name of the country from
dive yet to dying Lou look this was only
a seven-year dynasty but they left quite
an impact with a number of reforms
introduced during his reign Hoch wheelie
is also credited with making a deal with
the king of Champa to give up parts of
that kingdom to dine Lou Oakley Lee had
first gone after Champa in 1396 and
followed that up with four separate
waves of attacks between 1400 and 1403
so right here for the first time this
vit civilization born along the Red
River centered around the city of Hanoi
now they were spreading out with this
expansion into the northern half of
Champa in came these die Viet people to
homestead their way south bringing that
15th century version of Vietnamese nests
to a region that for the most part was
Hindu and more Indian than anything else
that's how it was done back then before
everything could be solidified into hard
national borders you conquered you went
in and populated the place diluted the
local population you own it from that
point on the Ho dynasty also tried their
utmost to patch things up with Ming
China however the defeated runs had
beaten the hose to the punch and had
already run to the young Emperor at the
main court offering total and complete
submission with no strings attached in
return for some help in getting rid of
these whole dynasty usurpers the Ming
young Emperor saw a political advantage
to backing the ousted Jun's he demanded
Hoek we li allowed the deposed gen ruler
back on the throne and to allow his
dynasty to be restored the diplomatic
process followed a well-worn script of
the usual Viet resistance all that was
needed to make things worse was some
incident that is what ended up happening
the young Emperor had his excuse to
invade when DiMeo forces attacked a mean
Kahn
bringing the trend ruler back to Vietnam
to be restored
remember we hit the Swale e war the
formerly that is then there was thus
only war it was the late early that time
and now in the early Ming Dynasty came
the Ming whole war incidentally this was
all happening right around the same time
when Admiral Jung ho was getting ready
to take his first voyage so they don't
look Emperor had a lot on his plate late
1406 the invasion of dying Lu this
planet gets underway the battle plan
called for one ming army to invade from
the west through yunnan and another from
the north in guanxi by early 1407 the
ming armies had blown right in and taken
control of the whole Red River Delta
region lived by the sword die by the
sword ho qui Lee who had murdered his
way to the throne had to hit the road in
May 1407 as the Ming force has made him
public enemy number one
they pursued him and members of his
whole royal family and caught up with
them the following month in June
everyone was captured and taken back to
China and were either killed or given
some sort of unpleasant ending reserved
for vanquished Royals no one knows for
sure what ultimately became of Hulk
wheelie but he certainly left his mark
in his short dynasty even though his
dynasty's area of political control
never went beyond core Red River Delta
region after overthrowing the ruling
dynasty down in Vietnam China got to
enjoy a fourth and final stretch as the
ones in charge down in the former dangle
the name was changed back to the old
Chinese term for this region geo Chur or
yachty this period of domination during
the Ming Dynasty lasted for 27 years one
of the more notable achievements of the
Ming domination of Vietnam was the
infusion of a great amount of
neo-confucianism for some reason this
brand of rueful Asif II was particularly
embraced by the Vietnamese as
as others whose world's most closely
orbited the Middle Kingdom and just like
we have Confucius Institutes today
back then the Ming government had funded
126 Confucian schools in Vietnam that
were churning out these scholars and
future officials Wong Yuen being who we
looked at in the last couple episodes of
that Chinese philosophy series he hadn't
come on the scene yet but this
neo-confucianism this song chef it first
emerged during the northern song and
stressed a strict hierarchy that placed
the family over the individual father /
mother and he educated over the
uneducated
and filial piety above all else and to
be good meant to be obedient
the other interesting thing that
happened was that weapons technologies
and the Ming had really come a long way
just like our nuclear bombs of today
dwarfed those used in 1945
well gunpowder in the Ming was much
better understood and new and innovative
kinds of ways were devised to kill
people and destroy objects more
efficiently and in a more quantitative
way as much as the Ming forces tried to
not let these weapons get into
Vietnamese hands of course they did and
all these cutting-edge technologies of
the day that China had come up with now
became Viet Nam's - and this is gonna
cause trouble for the Ming army soon
aside from these saina sized elites most
locals in and around the Red River
region didn't particularly want the Ming
armies and administration in Vietnam
during this quarter century period of
Ming domination it was a sustained
struggle quashing uprisings and attempts
by the locals to demonstrate their
popular discontent the Ming Empire had
turned Jojo into quite the cash cow and
just put a lot of economic pressure on
the locals is this popular discontent
more and more manifested itself along
came one of the biggest stars ever in
Vietnam history a lot of streets in
public place
named after this guy Lele Lele and
Mandarin
Lele was one of many rebels keeping up
the pressure on the Ming military down
in ciaochao he came from a land owning
family from the town of Lam Sun in pan
hua a province at the southern part of
chowder he had started stirring things
up as early as 1418 down there starting
the day after Chinese New Year which in
his part of the world was known as that
rebel fighters under his command had
been successful in capturing a large
cache of advanced Ming weapons and these
would end up being used by Viet forces
against the Chinese because this all
began in the town of Lam son what
followed with lai lai became known as
the Lampson uprising in order to build
up his strength lay like had been forced
to forge a close alliance with two
prominent aristocratic families from his
region of pankot these two families will
play a very high-profile role in the
years to follow these were the gen and
wind clans more about them next episode
the climax of lei Loy's fight for
independence to get the Chinese out of
Vietnam went down at the Ming Fortress
of some yang and in two great battles
between 14:26 1427 he and a whole cast
of military and civilian heroes finally
drove the Ming forces out of Vietnam
after a six-month siege and 10 years of
fighting it was all over eighty-thousand
ming soldiers were taken prisoner and
rather than do the usual thing of
decapitating everyone they all got
repatriated but lai lai held on to their
weapons and lai lai earned eternal glory
in the annals of vietnam history
credited with ending this especially
harsh period of Chinese domination over
Vietnam no more gel jure lei Li changed
the name back to diet and he became its
first emperor and this dynasty was known
as the later Lai
in order to differentiate it from lay
ones formerly of 980 to 1009 remember
him last episode he was on duty when the
Song Dynasty army first came calling
unfortunately Lalo's reign wasn't as
long-lasting as the impact he had on the
emerging nation he died in 1433 five
years into his dynasty lai lai is also
known by his posthumous temple name of
late I though again that tied the whole
name if you recall from last episode in
Mandarin was tied to that's the
posthumous temple name always reserved
for dynasty founders the later lai had
some staying power they would stick
around till 1788 in the air before
George Washington took office over in
the USA the dynasty ran from 1428 to
1789 with a little Wang bong thing in
the middle which we'll discuss later
this was the longest run of all the
Vietnamese Imperial dynasty's Leila was
both a military hero and statesman
responsible for initiating all kinds of
reforms throughout dai via that enhanced
the stability of the emerging state in
in the military civil service laws and
in land reform and because it had always
worked so well in the past a good
old-fashioned Chinese style Confucian
bureaucratic system was put in place to
administer the government the land and
the people and the general Chinese style
political framework that Lele put in
place pretty much stayed around in one
form or another all the way till the end
of Imperial Vietnamese history yes for
Champa lai lai patch things up with them
and established friendly relations for
now but with Lai Lloyd gone so early in
the game the dynasty as dynasties do
fell into a period where contending
powers vied for the throne during the
fourteen 40s and 50s then along came
another hero from Viet Nam's golden
period this was late on tone
he had a nice long reign 1462 1497
Lalo's grandson that's how he got to be
Emperor if no one objects to violently
I'm going to arbitrarily and
indiscriminately put the bookmark in
here and we'll pick up next episode with
China Vietnam relations during the reign
of Lape anthem and the later late
honesty and once the later lay is
finished well maybe by that time the
South China Sea will be crawling with
European adventurers traders and
missionaries and that always adds a
little spice to the story anything could
happen
when east meets west and that's sure
what happened in vietnam as we go from
episode to episode you might be thinking
by now that china and vietnam history
was two millennia of non-stop
confrontation but as bad as it sounds
the truth is both china and vietnam got
along more than they thought
nationalists love war in battle you have
the right to remain silent anything you
say can and will be used against you in
a court of law
scott Seligman's new book is just out on
potomac press the third degree the
triple murder that shook Washington and
changed American criminal justice learn
all about the story of mr. yang Seung
Hwan
the third degree tells the forgotten
story of a young Chinese man's abuse by
the DC police and his arduous seven-year
journey through the American legal
system that drew in presidents warren g
harding
and William Howard Taft as well as chief
justice Oliver Wendell Holmes and even J
Edgar Hoover it culminated in the
landmark Supreme Court ruling written by
Justice Louis Brandeis
that set the stage for Miranda versus
Arizona many years later the decision
that gave us the miranda rights that
presumes one is innocent until proven
guilty and provides protection against
coerced confessions Scott Seligman
ladies and gentlemen the third degree
I'll have the Amazon link at the usual
place on the website that nobody visits
I know who needs it you all got podcast
apps the chp chat line is now
if you don't have a slack accounts why
not go get one and join me live any time
for some China chitchat and discussions
about anything on your mind send me your
email address and I'll send you an
invite and I'll be waiting for you and
if you have no idea what the hell slack
is and I didn't either up until a couple
months ago so if I figured it out pretty
much anyone can laws willow Montgomery
signing off from the town of Los Angeles
California for the 200th time if I only
had two hundred customer comments in the
iTunes Store well you can't have
everything listen sorry I had nothing
extraordinary plan for this milestone
episode but I'm gonna reserve the right
to hold the celebration at a future time
of my choosing let's try and get through
this China Vietnam series alive first
take care everyone and I hope and pray
you'll consider coming back next time
for another exciting episode of the
China history podcast
you